#summary A guide to creating a map using the map creator.
#labels Phase-Support

= Map Creation Guide =

This page is a guide to how to create a map using my program.

1. Make a new folder for your map to be in. (It doesn't matter where you make this folder.)

2. Make a complete image of the map using an image editor like Windows Paint, Corel Draw, Adobe Photoshop, or any other image editor.
    A. Open the image editor program

    B. Use the paint can and fill in the entire image with white.

    C. Draw all the border lines for the territories using the color black. (As in #000000)

    D. Use the paint can and fill in all the sea territories with blue. (Actually, I don't think it matters what color you use for this)

    E. Save the image file in your maps folder. (The one you made earlier.)

3. Make a new folder named 'flags' in your maps folder.

4. Make a new folder named 'units' in your maps folder.

5. For every player that is not already included in the TripleA Game's images(Americans, Australians, British, Canadians, Chinese, Germans, Italians, Japanese, Neutral, Puppet_States, Russians), do this:
    A. Make an image for the players flag and save it in the 'flags' folder using the player's name as the image name.

    B. Make a new folder the same name as the player in the 'units' folder you made earlier.

    C. For every unit the player has, do this:
        1. Make an image for the unit and save it using the units name as the file name and place it in the folder that was created in step 4-B.

Note: The players that are included with TripleA do not contain the images for all the different types of units. Only these units are already included with TripleA: aaGun, armour, artillery, battleship, battleship_hit, bomber, bomber_hb, bomber_lr, bomber_lr_hb, carrier, cruiser, destroyer, factory, factory_it, fighter, fighter_jp, fighter_lr, fighter_lr_jp, halftrack, infantry, marine, rockets, s_destroyer, submarine, submarine_ss, and transport.

6. Open the first part of the map creator program.

7. Click the 'Next' button.

8. Click the 'Browse' button and locate the map's folder.

9. In the 'Initial Units Scale' textbox, enter the amount to scale the units in the game. (It has to be one of the following: .50, .5625, .6666, .75, .8333, .875, 1.00, 1.25)

10. In the 'Map Size' textbox, enter the size of the map's image.

11. In the 'Has Relief Tiles' textbox, enter whether or not there are relief tiles for the map.

12. In the 'Scroll Wrap' textbox, enter whether or not you want the map to have scroll wrap enabled.

13. For every player in the map, do the following:
    A. If you need to, click the 'New Player' button.

    B. In the 'Player Name' textbox, enter the name of the player.

    C. In the 'Player Color' textbox, enter the color you want for the territories that are owned by the player. (It needs to be a six digit color like: 028805, b16708, cad82e, cfadc8, fbaa29, 9ea8b4)

14. Proceed to the next step.

15. Click the 'Run Center Picker' button and follow the on-screen instructions.

16. Proceed to the next step.

17. Click the 'Run Polygon Grabber' button and follow the on-screen instructions.

18. Proceed to the next step.

19. Either click the 'Run Placement Picker' button and follow the on-screen instructions, or proceed to the next step and run the automatic placement finder.

20. If you decided not to use the 'Placement Picker', then click the 'Run Auto-Placement Finder' button and follow the on-screen instructions.

21. Proceed to the next step.

22. Click the 'Run Tile Image Breaker' button and follow the on-screen instructions.

23. Proceed to the next step.

24. If you have relief tiles for the map, click the 'Run Relief Image Breaker' button and follow the on-screen instructions.

25. Proceed to the next step.

26. Either click the 'Run Image Shrinker' button and follow the on-screen instructions, or use another image editing program and shrink the map image yourself and save it as 'smallMap.jpeg' in your map's folder.

27. Close the first part of the map creator and open the second part.

28. In the 'Map Name' textbox, enter the name of the map.

29. In the 'Map Version' textbox, enter the map version.

30. In the 'Resource Name' textbox, enter the name of the resources for your map (Usually "IPC's").

31. Click the first 'Browse' button, and locate the map's image file.

32. Click the second 'Browse' button, and locate the map's centers.txt file.

33. Enter the string that is used to automatically figure out which territories are water. (Examples: SZ, Sea Zone, Pacific, Atlantic, Water)

34. Proceed to the next step.

35. For every territory that is a capitol, impassable, victory city, or water, left click on it and supply the territory's information.

36. Proceed to the next step.

37. If you want the program to auto-find the connections do the following:
    A. Click the 'Auto-Fill' button.

    B. Click 'Yes'.

    C. In the 'Scan Range' textbox enter the width of the lines in the map.

    D. Click the 'Start' button.

38. If you want to enter the connections yourself, do the following:
    A. Click on the first territory in the connection.

    B. Click on the second territory in the connection.

    Note: If you want to remove a connection, right-click on one of the territories in the connection, and remake all the connections you want to keep from that territory.

39. Proceed to the next step.

40. For every player do the following:
    A. If you need to, click the 'New Player' button.

    B. In the 'Player Name' textbox, enter the name of the player.

    C. In the 'Player Alliance' textbox, enter the alliance the player belongs to. (If you want the player to be independent, just make the alliance the same name as the player.)

    D. In the 'Initial Resources' textbox, enter the amount of resources(IPCs) the player gets in the beginning. 
    
41. Proceed to the next step.

42. For every unit do the following:
    A. If you need to, click the 'New Unit' button.

    B. In the 'Unit Name' textbox, enter the name of the unit.

    C. In the 'Buy Cost' textbox, enter the amount of resources(IPCs) needed to buy the unit.

    D. In the 'Buy Quantity' textbox, enter the amount of units to receive when buying the unit. (Usually just 1, unless you are making it so you have to by two at a time.(This way you can make a unit cost .5 or something))

43. Proceed to the next step.

44. If you want the program to automatically enter the Gameplay Sequences, click the 'Auto-Fill' button and click 'Yes'.

45. If you want to enter the Gameplay Sequences yourself, do the following for each sequence you want to add: (You can click the "Available Choices" button to view all the gameplay sequences that are available.)
    A. If you need to, click the 'New Gameplay Sequence' button.

    B. In the 'Sequence Name' textbox, enter the name of the gameplay sequence.

    C. In the 'Class Name' textbox, enter the name of the TripleA class the sequence uses.

    D. In the 'Display' textbox, enter the text that is displayed when the gameplay sequence is in action.

46. Proceed to the next step.

47. If you want the program to automatically enter the Player Sequences, click the 'Auto-Fill' button and click 'Yes'.

48. If you want to enter the Player Sequences yourself, do the following for each sequence you want to add:
    A. If you need to, click the 'New Player Sequence' button.

    B. In the 'Sequence Name' textbox, enter the name of the player sequence.

    C. In the 'Gameplay Sequence' textbox, enter the name of the gameplay sequence to call when this player sequence runs.

    D. In the 'Player' textbox, enter the player that this player sequence applies to.

    E. In the 'Max Run Count' textbox, enter the maximum amount of times the sequence can be called for the whole game.

46. Proceed to the next step.

49. If you want the program to automatically enter the Technologies according to the default, click the 'Auto-Fill' button and click 'Yes'.

50. If you want to enter the Technologies yourself, do the following: (You can click the "Available Choices" button to view all the technologies that are available.)

    A. If you need to, click the 'New Technology' button.

    B. In the 'Technology Name' textbox, enter the name of the technology.

    C. In the 'Player' textbox, enter the name of the player the technology applies to.

    D. In the 'Already Enabled' textbox, enter whether or not the technology is enabled when the game first starts.

51. Proceed to the next step.

52. If you want the program to automatically enter the production frontiers(It just adds all the units to all the frontiers), click the 'Auto-Fill' button and click 'Yes'.

53. If you want to enter the Production Frontiers yourself, do the following:
    A. Go to each player's frontier tab, and do the following:
        1. For each unit you want to add to the frontier, click the 'New Unit' button(If Needed) and enter the name of the unit in the textbox that appears.

54. Proceed to the next step.

55. If you want the program to automatically enter the unit attachments, click the 'Auto-Fill' button and click 'Yes'.

56. If you want to enter the Unit Attachments yourself, do the following: (You can click the "Available Choices" button to view all the unit attachment that are available.)

A. Go to each units's attachments tab, and do the following:
    1. For each attachment you want to add to the unit's attachments, do the following:

            A. Click the 'New Attachment' button(If Needed)

            B. Enter the name of the attachment in the 'Attachment Name' textbox

            C. Enter the value of the attachment in the 'Value' textbox.

57. Proceed to the next step.

58. For each territory, click on the territory and enter the territory's production amount in the window that appears.

59. Proceed to the next step.

60. For each canal you want to add, do the following:
    A. Click on the first water territory in the canal.

    B. Click on the second water territory in the canal and click 'Yes'.

61. Proceed to the next step.

62. For each territory, click on the territory and enter the territory's new owner in the window that appears. 

63. Proceed to the next step.

64. For each territory, click on the territory and enter the territory's units in the window that appears. To do so, use the + and - buttons under each unit's name to add or remove one of that unit. The changes made using the + and - buttons will update the textbox at the bottom which actually sets the units of the territory. If you would like, you can also edit the text in the textbox directly which will cause the unit amounts shown above it to be updated. (Example: infantry:2,artillery:2,armour:4,fighter:2)

65. Proceed to the next step.

66. If you want the program to automatically enter the In-Game Settings (It just enters what a normal game would contain), click the 'Auto-Fill' button and click 'Yes'.

50. If you want to enter the In-Game Settings yourself, do the following for each Setting you want to add: (You can click the "Available Choices" button to view all the game settings that are available.)
    A. If you need to, click the 'New Setting' button.

    B. In the 'Setting Name' textbox, enter the name of the setting.

    C. In the 'Value' textbox, enter the value of the setting.

    D. In the 'Editable' textbox, enter whether or not the setting should be editable by the user when the game is being played.

    E. In the 'Min. N.' textbox, enter the lowest number that the player is allowed to set the value to. (Leave 0 if the setting value is not a number)

    F. In the 'Max. N.' textbox, enter the highest number that the player is allowed to set the value to. (Leave 0 if the setting value is not a number)

51. Proceed to the next step.

52. Press the 'Browse' button, and select where you want to save the xml file.

53. Click the 'Write To File' button.

54. Congratulations!! You're Done!!!

Note: If you want to save your progress in-between, click the 'Save' button in the bottom left of the window.